food but sometimes you need a fast regarding certain things that you're doing it might be taking your attention away and I'm not really going to go into that aspect of my message today regarding the fasting part but just what he had to say about the importance of prayer I thought was really really a good thing so going back to my original statement you know I've struggled to procrastination and trying to overcome that
And I'm being intentional about doing a little bit every day to make sure that I'm not putting things off that I typically would put off.
So it makes things a little bit less stressful for sure.
So I thought that the importance of prayer would be a good way to follow up with that message because prayer is needed to help in your struggles of things you're dealing with that you're trying to overcome.
So fun facts.
The word prayer is mentioned in the Bible 850 times.
You may not have been aware of that.
And in the Bible, there's over 650 prayers listed in the Bible and approximately 450 recorded answers to prayer in the Bible.
So I have a question for you.
I have a audience participation.
When is the first time prayers mentioned in the Bible?
Anybody have any idea?
Anyone.
All right.
Well, I'll go ahead and let you know when it is.
So we're going to go to Genesis 4, verse 26.
And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and named him Seth.
For God has appointed another seed for me instead of Abel, whom Cain killed.
And as far and as for Seth to him, also a son was born and he named him Enosh, then men began to call on the name of the Lord.
So that's what first mentions that man started to have a relationship with God or seeking after him.
So God desires to have a close relationship with us.
This cannot be accomplished.
If we're not in communion with him, we have to make sure we're in communion of God.
The more we communicate with others, the stronger our relationships become with each other.
This is true in our prayer life as well.
When I shared with Kim what my message was going to be about, she mentioned a study that she'd heard about where they did brain scans of people having conversations with each other.
And certain parts of your brain will light up when you're having a conversation with somebody.
They also did scans of people's brains when they're praying.
Those same parts of your brain light up when you're communicating with God.
So the study concluded that your body knows you're communicating with an outside being and not just having your words going out into nothingness.
This is proof that a relationship is being developed
when we are praying to our Father.
We're having conversation with Him.
And our bodies know that.
Let's look at an example that Jesus shared with His example, excuse me, let's look at an example of Jesus shared with His disciples of how we should pray.
So we're gonna go to Matthew six, verses five through 14.
And when you pray,
do not be like the hypocrites for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others truly I tell you they have received the reward in full but when you pray goes to your room close the door and pray to your father who is unseen then your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you and when you pray do not keep on babbling like pagans for they
They think they'll be heard because of their many words.
Do not be like them for your father knows what you need before you ask him.
So he already knows what you're needing before you ask.
This then is how you should pray.
Our father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come.
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread and forgive us our debts.
as we also forgive our debtors and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one for if you forgive other people when you sin against your heavenly father, your heavenly father will forgive us as well.
This is the way we should pray commonly called the Lord's Prayer.
This is the model Jesus shared for all prayer, emphasizing
worship God's kingdom, provision and forgiveness.
We need to be intentional about taking prayer seriously and not have it be a vain repetition.
It's easy for us to get stuck in a rut and just go through the motions and pray to God like we're making a laundry list or our list for our groceries that we're getting.
So here's an example also of how to pray and how not to pray.
So we're going to go to Luke 18 verses nine through 14.
It's a parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector.
Also, he spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others.
Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, the other tax collector.
The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank you that I'm not like other men, extortioners,
unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector.
I fast twice a week.
I give tithes of all that I possess.
And the tax collector standing afar off would not as much as race as eyes to heaven, standing afar off.
But beat his breasts, saying God be merciful to me as sinner.
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other.
Everyone who exalts himself and who humbles himself will be exalted.
It's all about being humble before the Lord, knowing we cannot do this on our own.
We need to have His help.
We need to pray for help and guidance on everything.
It's about being raw, sharing with Him everything because life is messy.
It just is.
We need to share our deepest concerns, our wounding, our successes, our failures, our disappointments.
He is our loving Father who loves us so very much and knows all of our weaknesses and frailties, and he wants to help us.
He is with us through everything we go through.
Jesus set the example of praying often and for everything.
So over this past weekend, when we had the snowstorm come through, we had to cancel services because of it.
It got me thinking about how dependent we really are on God's love and provision for us.
So we live in a modern world.
We can go to the grocery store, you know, 24 seven, well, pre-COVID.
And we can pretty much buy anything we want.
We can fill our refrigerators up with food and we can have everything there without having to go hunt for our next meal.
So we have modern day conveniences of being able to go and get food.
And it's easy for us to take these things for granted.
So like a lot of people, we decided to go to the store a few days before the snowstorm was coming to make sure we had the provisions that we needed before the storm.
And because we didn't know what was going to happen, you know, the power might go out.
We had no idea because they're talking about 18 inches of snow and thankfully we were within the zone where it's just snow and not ice, a lot of areas as we know where power was out and such.
So I went to the store also the day before the storm to get a few things.
And I noticed like the shelves are bare.
Bread was gone, milk, eggs, all the essentials gone.
So it's easy to take these things for granted.
We also bought a generator a few years ago.
Um, brand new, haven't touched it, haven't prepared it as like, well, it's maybe sometime during the summer, I'll get this thing going to make sure it works.
Well, didn't do that.
So scrambling around before the storm, just in case the power is going to go down, I thought I should at least have it ready.
So I willed it into the garage and, um, still didn't like get it set up, but we went and got some gas.
Uh, went and got a five gallon container.
for gas, Kim went and bought one.
And we thought, we better fill that up just in case.
And then Kim mentioned, she's like, what if the gas stations ran out of gas?
I mean, it's a possibility, because they tell everybody, make sure to fill up your tanks on your car.
So you've got gas in case you get stuck on the storm.
At least you'll have gas in your car to keep you warm if you're stuck and such.
So these are kind of things to think about, because it's easy.
to not decently be prepared ahead of time, but the last minute, oh, we better get all prepared for this.
So thankfully, as you know, the power did not go out, which was nice.
But it got me to thinking about the parable of the 10 virgins and how five were prepared, but five were not.
So let's go to Matthew 25,
turn with me to there as well, and we will go through this parable.
Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to 10 virgins who took their lamps.
They went out to meet the bridegroom.
Now five of them were wise and five were foolish.
Those who were foolish took their lamps and they took no oil with them, but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
But while the bridegroom delayed, they slumbered and slept.
And at midnight, a cry was heard, behold,
the bridegroom is coming, go out to meet him, then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps.
And the foolish said to the wise, give us some of your oil for our lamps are going out.
But the wise answered saying, no, less there should not be enough for us and you, but go rather to those who sell and buy for yourselves.
And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding and the door was shut.
Afterward, the other versions came also saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
But he answered and said assuredly, I say, I don't know you.
Watch therefore for you know, neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of man is coming.
So we're told to watch and be prepared for Christ's return.
And praying is a first step in developing a close relationship with our father.
This is how we develop a relationship with God the Father and Jesus.
We do not want to be the five unprepared virgins that are told assuredly, I say, I do not know you.
As I mentioned before, God is wanting a close relationship with us.
He loves and wants to help us.
So let's go to Matthew six, verses 25 through 34.
to talk about this some more.
Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, what you will drink, know what your body, nor about your body, what you will put on.
It's not life more than food and the body more than clothing.
Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns yet your father
your Heavenly Father feeds them.
Are you not more valuable than they?
Which of you by worrying can add one qubit to your stature.
So why do you worry about clothing?
Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow.
They neither toil nor spin.
And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all of his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Now, if God cleaves the grass of the field,
which today is, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you of little faith.
Therefore, do not worry saying, what shall I eat?
What shall I drink?
What shall I wear?
For after all these things, a Gentile seek for your heavenly father knows that you need all these things, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added to you.
Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow for tomorrow.
We'll worry about its own things.
Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.
You know, we still need to make sure that we're good providers for our families and being prepared each day.
And the way to do this is to put God first foremost by having our armor on.
The point here is not to worry and to be in constant state of fear, but rather putting our trust in God.
There are many examples of prayer in the Bible, prayers of faith, prayers of agreement, prayers of petition, prayers of Thanksgiving, prayers of worship, prayers of consecration, prayers of intercession and praying in the spirit.
So today I just wanted to do an overview about just the importance of prayer.
and how we need to have it in our lives and how we need to have a close relationship with God.
Perhaps the next time, if I feel like I'm led to do so, we can go deeper into the different aspects of prayer of all these different areas.
But in the meantime, don't forget about the importance of prayer.